README.md, before:


:snake: "rack is to reck as snake is to snek" :snake:

# Reck

The exception-powered Ruby web framework!

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/honeybadger-io/reck.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/honeybadger-io/reck)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/reck.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/reck)

---
:zap: Brought to you by **Honeybadger.io**: Zero-instrumentation, 360 degree
coverage of errors, outages and service degradation. [Deploy with confidence and
be your team's devops
hero!](https://www.honeybadger.io/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=reck)
:zap:

# Why another framework?

Reck is very light-weight compared to other web frameworks such as Rails
and Sinatra. We handle the routing layer using a very simple
exception-based DSL and then get out of the way so that you can use your
preferred model, view, and controller components.

## Installation

```sh
$ gem install reck
```

## Usage

To respond to the defined route with rendered content, simply raise an
exception. The message of the exception will be evaluated as ERB before
being added to the response. If the exception is raised without a message,
a no-content response will be sent. This exception-based DSL is great for
controlling the flow of your application.

Routing is as simple as:

```ruby
Reck.route '/' do |request|
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Hello World'
end
```

Want to add authentication? No problem.

```ruby
Reck.route '/admin' do |request|
  raise Reck::Forbidden unless request.params['username'] == 'admin'
  raise Reck::Forbidden unless request.params['password'] == 'secret'
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Super secret admin page'
end
```

The message of each exception is actually a template. Use ERB tags to
interpolate Ruby values in your views:

```ruby
Reck.route '/version' do |request|
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Reck version: <%= Reck::VERSION %>'
end
```

Reck depends on Rack. You also have access to helper methods
derived from the keys in Rack's env hash:

```ruby
Reck.route '/method' do |request|
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Requested via: <%= request_method %>'
end
```

To run the application server:

```sh
$ ruby -r reck application.rb
```

## Supported Responses

Each response inherits from the exception `Reck::Response`.

| Exception Class       | Status code |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| Reck::Ok              | 200         |
| Reck::Created         | 201         |
| Reck::Forbidden       | 403         |
| Reck::NotFound        | 404         |

## Handling Exceptions

While responses should always be raised, you may wish to handle other types of
unexpected exceptions, or "exceptional exceptions". In these cases, use
[Honeybadger](https://www.honeybadger.io/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=reck).
Honeybadger provides middleware (and a bunch of other cool features) to monitor
Ruby applications -- whether you're using Reck, Rails, Sinatra, Rack, or rolling
your own Ruby web-framework.

To monitor Reck for exceptions:

```ruby
# application.rb
require 'honeybadger'
require 'reck'

Honeybadger.configure do |config|
  config.api_key = 'your_api_key'
  config.report_data = true
  config.exceptions.ignore = [Reck::Response]
end

use Honeybadger::Rack::ErrorNotifier

Reck.route '/oops' do |request|
  fail 'oops!'
end
```

Run the server:

```sh
$ ruby application.rb
```

Don't forget to replace `'your_api_key'` with the API key from your [project
settings
page](https://www.honeybadger.io/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=reck)
in Honeybadger.

## TODO

- [ ] Handle all HTTP 1.1 status codes
- [ ] Access to response headers
- [ ] Custom response formats

## Contributing

1. Fork it.
2. Create a topic branch `git checkout -b my_branch`
3. Commit your changes `git commit -am "Boom"`
3. Push to your branch `git push origin my_branch`
4. Send a [pull request](https://github.com/honeybadger-io/reck/pulls)

## License

Reck is Copyright 2018 © Honeybadger Industries LLC. It is free software, and
may be redistributed under the terms specified in the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Make the joke a lil more obvious.

README.md, after:


:snake: "rack is to reck as snake is to snek" :snake:

# Reck

The exception-powered Ruby web framework!

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/honeybadger-io/reck.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/honeybadger-io/reck)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/reck.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/reck)

---
:zap: Brought to you by **Honeybadger.io**: Zero-instrumentation, 360 degree
coverage of errors, outages and service degradation. [Deploy with confidence and
be your team's devops
hero!](https://www.honeybadger.io/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=reck)
:zap:

## Why another framework?

Reck is very light-weight compared to other Ruby web frameworks such as Rails
and Sinatra. We handle *only* the routing and middleware layers using Ruby's
built-in exception system to `raise` requests to the client. Flow control in
Ruby has never been easier.

### Seriously?

No, lol. Reck is a joke. It's an example of what *not* to do. Using exceptions
for flow control is bad for a number of reasons:

- It makes your code more difficult to read and understand
- There are better alternatives (such as `catch`/`throw`)
- It makes Ruby slower

With the disclaimers out of the way, let's make some bad decisions!

## Installation

```sh
$ gem install reck
```

## Usage

To respond to the defined route with rendered content, simply raise an
exception. The message of the exception will be evaluated as ERB before
being added to the response. If the exception is raised without a message,
a no-content response will be sent.

Routing is as simple as:

```ruby
Reck.route '/' do |request|
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Hello World'
end
```

Want to add authentication? No problem.

```ruby
Reck.route '/admin' do |request|
  raise Reck::Forbidden unless request.params['username'] == 'admin'
  raise Reck::Forbidden unless request.params['password'] == 'secret'
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Super secret admin page'
end
```

The message of each exception is actually a template. Use ERB tags to
interpolate Ruby values in your views:

```ruby
Reck.route '/version' do |request|
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Reck version: <%= Reck::VERSION %>'
end
```

Reck depends on Rack. You also have access to helper methods
derived from the keys in Rack's env hash:

```ruby
Reck.route '/method' do |request|
  raise Reck::Ok, 'Requested via: <%= request_method %>'
end
```

To run the application server:

```sh
$ ruby -r reck application.rb
```

## Supported Responses

Each response inherits from the exception `Reck::Response`.

| Exception Class       | Status code |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| Reck::Ok              | 200         |
| Reck::Created         | 201         |
| Reck::Forbidden       | 403         |
| Reck::NotFound        | 404         |

## Handling Exceptions

While responses should always be raised, you may wish to handle other types of
unexpected exceptions, or "exceptional exceptions". In these cases, use
[Honeybadger](https://www.honeybadger.io/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=reck).
Honeybadger provides middleware (and a bunch of other cool features) to monitor
Ruby applications -- whether you're using Reck, Rails, Sinatra, Rack, or rolling
your own Ruby web-framework.

To monitor Reck for exceptions:

```ruby
# application.rb
require 'honeybadger'
require 'reck'

Honeybadger.configure do |config|
  config.api_key = 'your_api_key'
  config.report_data = true
  config.exceptions.ignore = [Reck::Response]
end

use Honeybadger::Rack::ErrorNotifier

Reck.route '/oops' do |request|
  fail 'oops!'
end
```

Run the server:

```sh
$ ruby application.rb
```

Don't forget to replace `'your_api_key'` with the API key from your [project
settings
page](https://www.honeybadger.io/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=reck)
in Honeybadger.

## Contributing

1. Fork it.
2. Create a topic branch `git checkout -b my_branch`
3. Commit your changes `git commit -am "Boom"`
3. Push to your branch `git push origin my_branch`
4. Send a [pull request](https://github.com/honeybadger-io/reck/pulls)

## License

Reck is Copyright 2018 © Honeybadger Industries LLC. It is free software, and
may be redistributed under the terms specified in the LICENSE file.
